# Logjam Attack

This post builds up from explanation to Diffie-Hellman Key Exchange Protocol and Transport Layer Security(TLS) to eventually tackle Logjam Attack. As well as  Logjam Attack, FREAK attack is also mentioned, since it is very similar.

Source: [Weak Diffie-Hellman and the Logjam Attack](https://weakdh.org)

## Diffie-Hellman Key Exchange

---

This protocol provides a way to securely exchange cryptographic keys over a public connection. As many cryptographic lectures use this analogy, I will be using the famous Alice and Bob for my explanation. To give a brief overview, this method puts heavy emphasis on a large prime number ( by large I mean extremely large ) and after some cryptographic/mathematic computations they Alice and Bob will be resulted with a common secret key. 

One key thing to understand before we move on is the discrete logarithm problem. This is what makes this cipher-suite so powerful. Discrete logarithm problem makes us easy to compute the secret key value with the large prime and the modulus value, but it is very very very hard to get the original value with the secret key value. In other words, it is a one-way function ( in a sense that it is easy on one side but not on the other ).

## Transport Layer Security (TLS)

---

So what is TLS and what do we have to know about it for us to explore into Logjam vulnerability?  TLS is a network security protocol that basically provides us with secure connection in the internet. Primarily, TLS encrypts the data for communications between clients and servers for safe delivery of data. 

What we want to focus in this post is the TLS handshake. When client and server initially meets and negotiates to build a connection, they decide on many things: version of TLS, cypher-suite they will be using, or even verification of server and client themselves. 

## Vulnerability

---

I understand just three paragraphs of Diffie-Hellman and TLS are not sufficient, but for the sake of the main idea of this post being Logjam Attack, I tried to give you the briefest summary of these two concepts.

So Let's get started on Logjam Attack. 

This attack is performed as  a man-in-the-middle attack, and this attacker will basically hack its way through Diffie Hellman encryption system by using precomputed values. I will explain step by step from here.

1. **Man in the middle attacker secretly enters the connection**

    I will be calling the client Alice, server Bob, and man in the middle Eve from here for convenience. When Alice and Bob is performing a TLS handshake, Eve injects herself into this connection and modifies the data being passed on. During this handshake, when Alice and Bob are deciding on the encryption system they are going to use, Eve changes the system to be chosen to be a weaker one. In this attack, specifically 512 bit Diffie Hellman cipher-suite. 

    For example, let's say Alice initially wants to decide with Bob to use a 1024 bit Diffie Hellman encryption system for their connection. However, Eve will intercept and modify the message to 512 bit Diffie Hellman and then send it to Bob. Now Bob will be thinking, Alice needs to use 512 bit version of encryption system, will agree on it, then send back a confirmation message. In the end, Alice will be thinking she is using a 1024 bit version, where actually, the connection is agreed to use 512 bit version.

    This is where the downgrade attack happens. Man in the middle will downgrade the cipher suite and profit from this.2. 

2. **Man in the middle attacker has precomputed values.**

    First of all, in Diffie Hellman, as mentioned above, discrete logarithm problem is what makes is hard for us to decipher or 'hack' the system. However, in this case, we have a nation-level hacker, which means they have a huge computing power, basically because they are funded by the nation. For example, think of NSA. With this power they are going to precompute the values for the prime keys that can be used, so they can easily hack with the value given from Alice and Bob.

    But if there is 512 bits, wouldn't there be too much to compute? Yes, it will take forever even with nation-level power. However, in fact, not all connections use random 512 bit primes. Many connections tend to use identical primes. This is mainly because, they have set their default prime to be a specific one, and many connections seems to be using same ones. For further information, 82% use same ones and 10% use same ones. So basically 92% are sharing just 2 prime numbers...

    This is now where precomputed values come in. With the precomputed values for the 2 prime numbers, they will be performing this attack on the 92% of the connections.

    *92% might seem scary here but please note that this doesn't mean 92% of internet connections are vulnerable. Apparently only 8% of the internet connections offer 512 bit encryption system, which means 8% of 92% of the websites could be vulnerable.*

3. **Man in the middle attacker has now hacked the connection.**

## Branch Out - FREAK Attack

---

I was thinking of making a separate post on this attack, but since it has a lot of overlapping concepts with Logjam, I will be explaining it here.

This attack is quite different from Logjam in a way that it is targeting TLS / SSL connections ( SSL is the successor of TLS ) and it is targeting RSA encryption system instead of DH for Logjam. So the idea here is that, man in the middle can downgrade the cipher suite to export-grade RSA, which is a lower version of RSA, in connections and basically factor a 512 bit RSA key. 

This attack has been discovered and become popular in 2015, so now, I believe, many browsers are not supporting export grade RSA. In fact, since export grade RSA can be broken with just around $100 cloud computing system, it *must* have been fixed. 

But how did this occur? This was mainly because in 1990s, the computing powers that they used were not as strong as we use now. Also, fun fact here, in theory NSA wanted to have accessibility to all connections by having a master key, which is why the maximum key length was limited to 512 bits.

As you can see, this attack has the same concept of downgrading cipher suite, and using a powerful computing power to break the system, which is why I mentioned FREAK attack here!

## Conclusion.

---

It's 2020 now. Many browsers and connections that we normally use went through all updates. So don't worry. But, be aware for upcoming vulnerabilities, as we are always open to ones. Also, let us be aware of these types of attacks, as we have now learned them!