# Heartbleed Attack

Here we are going to talk about the heartbleed vulnerability. This is a vulnerability found in 2014 and specifically it's a flaw from the OpenSSL. Also this is pretty simple, so it is going to be a short post.

Source

## Heartbeat

---

Before we start with the attack, we need to know where this attack is executed at. This specifically happens when using the heartbeat extension in a OpenSSL implementation. This protocol simply allows keep-alive connections. 

Heartbeat works in a very straightforward way. When a payload is sent, upon receiving a heartbeat request it must send an reply with the payload. Basically it's checking if the connection is alive by demanding the server to reply with what we requested. I have extracted the message request structure for specification ( RFC 6520 ).

```jsx
struct {
      HeartbeatMessageType type;
      uint16 payload_length;
      opaque payload[HeartbeatMessage.payload_length];
      opaque padding[padding_length];
   } HeartbeatMessage;
```

Focus on the payload_length and payload. As we will tackle those fields from here.

## Heartbleed

---

So where is the flaw?

The attack works when we lie. This is what attackers always do. They tell the server they are giving an N number length of message while they are actually giving M number length of message (N > M). In other words, attackers are saying they are sending a longer message when actually they are providing a shorter message.

This brings a serious problem. From the space that is created, difference between given length number and the actual length, the response will be filled with, for example, error message. In the error message, it can contain things like ID, password, certificates... all those confidential information. 

So how are these information leaked? First of all, it's all random.  As payload is being filled, the code tends to fill it up with whatever data it is stored in the memory, and it happens to be that, the memory was working with confidential information. For help of understanding, I have copied a line of code from the OpenSSL ( version 1.0.1e ). 

```jsx
memcpy(bp, pl, payload);
```

Here we see that we are copying pl, the payload, with the payload, the size of payload. Here I am going to provide you an example. Let's say pl is "Hi", but an attacker provides payload to be 102. Then obviously we will have 100 extra bytes remaining, and now due to memcpy, the excess space will be filled with whatever is in the memory at that moment. This could be garbage but at the same time, it could be gold. 

The fix was simple. They just had to check if the payload length provided was actually larger than the actual length. If it is larger, then they will just reject it. For normal people like us, we would just have to update OpenSSL. However, we can learn from a previous bug, how manipulation and abuse of an extension can also severely weaken our systems.